>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA SPENT
HIS DAY ON CAPITOL HILL TODAY,
ARGUING FOR BOTH DIPLOMATIC AND
MILITARY STEPS TO FORCE SYRIA TO
RELINQUISH ITS CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> Woodruff: IF A DIPLOMATIC
SOLUTION WERE FOUND, IT COULD
AVERT MILITARY ACTION.
WE TALK WITH REPUBLICAN SENATOR
SUSAN COLLINS OF MAINE.
>> Ifill: AND MARK SHIELDS AND
DAVID BROOKS PREVIEW TONIGHT'S
PRIMETIME PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
ON SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: WHILE CHIEF FOREIGN
AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT MARGARET
WARNER REPORTS FROM CAIRO, ON
THE GROWING SPLIT AMONG
EGYPTIANS AS THE POLITICAL
CRISIS CONTINUES THERE.
>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
THOSE ARE JUST ME OSOF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT: THE PRESIDENT MADE
READY FOR A DOUBLE-EDGED
ASSIGNMENT TONIGHT, TO ADDRESS
THE NATION WITH THE CASE FOR A
MILITARY STRIKE ON SYRIA, AND AT
THE SAME TIME LEAVE THE DOOR
OPEN TO A DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION
THAT COULD AVOID IT-- ALL THIS
AS RUSSIA PUSHED EFFORTS FOR
SYRIA TO SURRENDER CONTROL OF
ITS CHEMICAL ARSENAL, AND THE
U.S. INSISTED ON VERIFICATION.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON SYRIA, RIGHT
AFTER THE OTHER NEWS OF THE DAY.
>> Ifill: THE DAY'S NEWS ON
SYRIA WAS A TONIC FOR WALL
STREET.
STOCKS RALLIED AS IT APPEARED
DIPLOMACY WAS OVERTAKING THE
POSSIBILITY OF MILITARY ACTION.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED NEARLY 128 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 15,191.
THE NASDAQ ROSE ALMOST 23 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 3729.
THIS IS PRIMARY DAY IN NEW YORK
CITY, WITH VOTERS CHOOSING PARTY
NOMINEES FOR MAYOR AND OTHER
RACES.
IN THE MAYOR'S CONTEST,
DEMOCRATIC FRONT-RUNNER BILL DE
BLASIO HOPES TO GET 40% OF THE
VOTE-- ENOUGH TO AVOID A RUNOFF.
AMONG THE REPUBLICANS, FORMER
TRANSIT AUTHORITY HEAD JOE LHOTA
HOLDS A COMMANDING LEAD.
THE ULTIMATE WINNER WILL SUCCEED
MAYOR MICHAEL BLOOMBERG, WHO'S
HELD THE OFFICE FOR 12 YEARS.
THE U.S. JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAS
RELEASED HUNDREDS OF CLASSIFIED
DOCUMENTS THAT DEPICT MISUSE OF
DOMESTIC SURVEILLANCE IN 2009.
THEY SHOW INCIDENTS IN WHICH THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY WENT
TOO FAR, AND THEN MISLED A
SECRET OVERSIGHT COURT ABOUT THE
VIOLATIONS.
TO HALT THE COLLECTION OF PHONE
DATA.
SO THE LIBERTY GROUP
CIVIL LIBERTIES GROUPS SUED TO
FORCE RELEASE OF THE MATERIAL.
IN INDIA, A COURT CONVICTED FOUR
MEN TODAY IN THE FATAL GANG RAPE
OF A YOUNG WOMAN LAST YEAR.
THE INCIDENT TRIGGERED WORLDWIDE
CONDEMNATION AND REFORMS IN
INDIA'S SEXUAL VIOLENCE LAWS.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JOHN
SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
.
>> NOT LONG AFTER SUN VIEZ, A
POLICE VAN SWEPT PAST THE
CAMERAS AND INTO A DISTRICT
COURT IN DELHI.
INSIDE THE VEHICLE, FOUR MEN
WEARING HOODS, FOUR MEN ACCUSED
OF A CRIME THAT SHOCKED AND
DEEPLY SHAMED THE PEOPLE OF
INDIA.
OUTSIDE OF THE GATE, AN ANGRY
CROWD FORMED UP.
>> WE WANT JUSTICE.
THEY HAVE COME TO HEAR THE
JUDGE'S VERDICT AND DELIVER AN
IMPROMPTU ONE OF THEIR OWN.
>> A DEATH SENTENCE FOR EVERYONE
CONVICTED OF RAIN, SAID THIS
WOMAN.
FIVE MEN AND ONE JUVENILE WERE
CHARGED WITH TORTURING, RAIN
RAPING AND MURDERING A
23-YEAR-OLD PHYSIO THERAPY
STUDENT LAST NOVEMBER.
POLICE SAY THE GANG ATTACKED THE
WOMAN AND A MALE FRIEND AFTER
THEIR BOARDED THIS BUS.
THE MEN BEAT THEM WITH AN IRON
BAR, GANG RAPED THE WOMAN AND
THREW THEM OFF THE MOVING
VEHICLE.
THE 23-YEAR-OLD DIED TWO WEEKS
LATER.
WORD OF THE ATTACK QUICKLY
SPREAD AND YOUNG, MIDDLE-CLASS
PROTECTORS TOOK TO THE STREETS.
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN IN INDIA,
NO LONGER SOMETHING THEY WERE
PREPARED TO IGNORE.
POLITICIANS SCRAMBLED TO
RESPOND, INCREASING PENALTIES
AND STEPPING UP FAST TRACK
COURTS FOR RAPE.
THE MURDER OF THE 23-YEAR-OLD
STUDENT WAS THE FIRST CASE TO BE
HEARD.
A LAWYER BROUGHT NEWS OF THE
VERDICT --
>> ALL FOUR WERE FOUND GUILTY ON
ALL CHARGES AND TOMORROW A
SENTENCING HEARING WILL BEGIN,
HE SAID.
>> THE JUVENILE BARELY GIVEN A
YEAR SENTENCE.
ANOTHER GANG MEMBER TOOK HIS OWN
LIFE IN JAIL.
>>
>> Ifill: THE FOUR CONVICTED MEN
NOW FACE THE POSSIBILITY OF
DEATH BY HANGING, THE MAXIMUM
PENALTY FOR THEIR CRIMES.
EAST OF SAN FRANCISCO MADE
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS OVERNIGHT.
THE STATEPARK  IS NOW AT LEAST
45 PERCENT CONTAINED.
IT IT STARTED ON SUNDAY AND HAS
SINCE BLACKENED 5 MILES OF
WOODLANDS AND 5 HOMES ARE STILL
THREATENED.
AMERICANS ARE FACING A GROWING
CRISIS IN CANCER CARE.
THAT WARNING, ISSUED TODAY BY
THE INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE, FOUND
DEMAND IS GROWING JUST AS THE
WORK FORCE OF CANCER SPECIALISTS
IS SHRINKING.
AT THE SAME TIME, COSTS CONTINUE
TO RISE.
THE REPORT CALLED FOR PATIENTS
TO GET MORE INVOLVED IN PICKING
THEIR CARE AND THEIR CAREGIVERS.
AN APPARENT OUTBREAK OF FOOD
POISONING-- POSSIBLY LINKED TO
CHOBANI GREEK YOGURT-- HAS
SPREAD TO NEARLY 90 PEOPLE, THAT
ACCORDING TO THE U.S. FOOD AND
DRUG ADMINISTRATION.
CHOBANI HAD ALREADY ANNOUNCED A
VOLUNTARY RECALL OF 35 VARIETIES
OF ITS YOGURT THAT MAY HAVE BEEN
CONTAMINATED BY MOLD.
THE F.D.A. IS NOW WORKING WITH
THE COMPANY TO SPEED UP THAT
PROCESS.
CONGRESS TODAY AWARDED ITS
HIGHEST CIVILIAN HONOR TO FOUR
YOUNG BLACK GIRLS KILLED IN A
CHURCH BOMBING IN ALABAMA NEARLY
50 YEARS AGO.
IN A CAPITOL CEREMONY, THE
CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL WAS
GIVEN POSTHUMOUSLY TO ADDIE MAE
COLLINS, CAROLE ROBERTSON,
CYNTHIA WESLEY, AND DENISE
McNAIR.
THEIR DEATHS HELPED SPUR THE
PASSAGE OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT
OF 1964 AND THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT A YEAR LATER.
ALABAMA CONGRESSWOMAN TERRI
SEWELL PAID TRIBUTE TODAY.
>> THE NAMES OF THE FOUR LITTLE
GIRLS WILL NEVER APPEAR ON THE
WALL HERE IN CONGRESS, THEIR
LEGACY TRULY PAVED THE WAY FOR
ME AND SO MANY OTHERS TO SERVE
HERE IN CONGRESS.
I KNOW THAT THE JOURNEY THAT I
NOW TAKE, AS ALABAMA'S FIRST
BLACK CONGRESS WOMAN WOULD NOT
BE POSSIBLE HAD IT NOT BEEN FOR
THE JOURNEY OF ADDIE, CAROL,
DENISE AND CYNTHIA.
>>
>> Ifill: PAST RECIPIENTS OF THE
MEDAL INCLUDE ROSA PARKS,
REVEREND MARTIN LUTHER KING,
JR., AND HIS WIFE, CORETTA SCOTT
KING.
STILL AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR,
THREE TAKES ON SYRIA, FROM
REPUBLICAN SENATOR SUSAN
COLLINS, SYRIAN AMERICANS WITH
FAMILY IMPACTED BY WAR, AND
FORMER U.N. WEAPONS INSPECTOR,
CHARLES DUELFER; PLUS, MARGARET
WARNER IN EGYPT; JEFFREY BROWN
ON THE PHOTOGRAPHY OF WAR; AND
SHIELDS AND BROOKS PREVIEW
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S ADDRESS TO THE
NATION.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WE DELVE FULLY
INTO THE SYRIA STORY AND TODAY'S
DIPLOMATIC DANCE OVER THE ASSAD
REGIME'S CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
RAY SUAREZ BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> WERE WAITING FOR THAT
PROPOSAL.
BUT WE'RE NOT WAITING FOR LONG.
>> AT A HOUSE HEARING, SECRETARY
OF STATE JOHN KERRY PUT RUSSIA
ON NOTICE ABOUT ITS PLAN TO PUT
SYRIA'S POISON GAS UNDER
INTERNATIONAL CONTROL.
>> IT HAS TO BE SWIFT, IT HAS TO
BE REAL, IT HAS TO BE
VERIFIABLE.
I CANNOT BE A DELAYING TACTIC.
>> KERRY DEMAND ADD BINDING U.N.
RESOLUTION WITH TOUGH
CONSEQUENCES.
IN MOSCOW, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN IS RUSSIA IS
SERIOUS BUT THE U.S. IS MAKING
THINGS DIFFICULT.
>> UNDOUBTEDLY ALL OF THIS MAKES
SENSE AND CAN WORK ONLY IN THE
EVENT THAT WE HEAR THAT THE
AMERICAN SIDE AND THOSE WHO
SUPPORT THE U.S. IN THIS SENSE
REJECT THE USE OF FORCE.
BECAUSE IT'S HARD TO MAKE ANY
COUNTRY, SYRIA OR ANOTHER
COUNTRY, INSIDE OTHER STATE IN
THE WORLD, DISARM ON A
UNILATERAL BASIS IF AN ATTACK IS
BEING PREPARED AGAINST IT.
>> THE FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER
SAID HIS GOVERNMENT WAS DRAFTING
A RESOLUTION THAT CALLS FOR
VERIFYING RUSSIA'S PLAN.
>> WE THINK AND WE KNOW THAT
SYRIA HAS A THOUSAND TONS OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND THAT'S
ENORMOUS.
THOSE WEAPONS ARE OBVIOUSLY VERY
DIFFICULT TO LOCATE AND DESTROY.
AND IT'S OBVIOUSLY NOT THE
RUSSIANS AND THE SYRIANS THAT
CAN BE TRUSTED TO DO THIS ALONE.
THERE MUST BE INTERNATIONAL
VERIFICATION.
>> AND IT WAS CLEAR, THE
NEGOTIATIONS WON'T BE EASY.
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL FIRST
SCHEDULED AN EMERGENCY
CLOSED-DOOR SESSION ON SYRIA,
THEN CANCELED IT, SAYING THE
RUSSIANS HAD WITHDRAW NTHEIR
REQUEST.
AMID THE DIPLOMATIC BACK AND
FORTH, THE KILLING CONTINUED
INSIDE SYRIA.
AMATEUR VIDEO POSTED ONLINE
SHOWED NEW SHELLING BY
GOVERNMENT FORCES IN PARTS OF
DAMASCUS.
AND BACK IN WASHINGTON, THE
PRESIDENT'S TEAM, INCLUDING
SECRETARY KERRY, PURSUED ITS
REQUEST FOR CONGRESS TO
AUTHORIZE MILITARY FORCE AGAINST
SYRIA.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY THAT
NOTHING FOCUSES THE MIND LIKE
THE PROSPECT OF A HANGING:
WELL, IT'S THE CREDIBLE THREAT
OF FORCE THAT HAS BEEN ON THE
TABLE FOR THESE LAST WEEKS THAT
HAS, FOR THE FIRST TIME, BROUGHT
THIS REGIME TO EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THEY HAVE A CHEMICAL
WEAPONS ARSENAL.
>> MR. OBAMA MDEA HIS OWN VISIT
TO CAPITOL HILL THIS AFTERNOON
TO LOBBY SENATORS FROM BOTH
PARTIES.
>> SENATE AIDES TOLD "THE NEWS
HOUR" THE PRESIDENT BACKINGS A
DELAY TO ALLOW THE DEMOCRATIC
PROCESS TO PLAY OUT AND THAT IS
SENATORS SEEM SUPPORTIVE OF
WAITING.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS REPORTED A MAJORITY OF
SENATORS WERE OPPOSED TO
MILITARY ACTION OR LEANING
AGAINST IT.
IN THE HOUSE, IT WAS
6-1 AGAINST.
THE SENATE'S TOP REPUBLICAN,
MITCH McCONNELL BECAME THE
FIRST CONGRESSIONAL LEADER TO
OPPOSE THE RESOLUTION.
>> ALL INTERVENTIONS ARE NOT
CREATED EQUAL.
AND THIS PROPOSAL JUST DOES NOT
STAND UP.
>> SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
REED POSTPONED A TEST VOTE ON
THE RESOLUTION THAT HAD BEEN SET
FOR TOMORROW.
HE INSISTED TODAY THE DELAY WILL
NOT BE INDEFINITE.
>> THE ST. PATRICK WILL GIVE THE
INTERNATIONAL DISCUSSIONS TIME
TO PLAY OUT BUT NOT UNLIMITED
TIME.
>> ON THE HOUSE SIDE, SPEAKER
JOHN BOEHNER SAID HE IS TAKING A
WAIT-AND-SEE APPROACH IN LIGHT
OF THE DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS.
>> CLEARLY DIP DIPLOMACY IS
ALWAYS A BETTER OUTCOME THAN
MILITARY ACTION.
BUT I WILL SAY I'M SOMEWHAT
SKEPTICAL OF THOSE THAT ARE
INVOLVED IN THE DIPLOMATIC
DISCUSSION TODAY.
>> IN HIS INTERVIEW WITH "THE
NEWS HOUR" YESTERDAY, THE
PRESIDENT ACKNOWLEDGED HE FACES
AN UPHILL CLIMB WITH LAWMAKERS,
AS WELL AS A WAR-WEARY PUBLIC.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT I'M GOING
TO CONVINCE THE OVERWHELMING
MAJORITY OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
TO TAKE ANY KIND OF MILITARY
ACTION BUT I BELIEVE I CAN MAKE
A VERY STRONG CASE TO CONGRESS
AS WELL AS THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
ABOUT WHY WE CAN'T LEAVE OUR
CHILDREN A WORLD IN WHICH OTHER
CHILDREN ARE BEING SUBJECTED TO
NERVE GAS.
>> THE PRESIDENT WILL TAKE THAT
CASE DIRECTLY TO THE PUBLIC THIS
EVENING WHEN HE ADDRESSES THE
NATION AT 9:00 P.M. EASTERN
TIME.
>> Ifill: MAINE'S REPUBLICAN
SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS ATTENDED
THE LUNCH MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT TODAY, AND A DINNER AT
VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN'S HOME
SUNDAY NIGHT, AS THE
ADMINISTRATION COURTED HER VOTE.
SHE JOINS ME NOW.
>> UNFORTUNATELY WE SEEM NOT TO
THE HAVE SENATOR COLLINS AUDIO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME, SENATOR?
>> I CAN NOW.
>> OK.
>> I WAS NOT GETTING ANYTHING
FOR A FEW MINUTES BACK.
>> WELL, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US.
WE JUST HEARD HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER TALK ABOUT THE CHOICE
BETWEEN DIPLOMACY AND MILITARY
ACTION.
IS THAT WHAT YOU SEE AS THE
CHOICE RIGHT NOW?
>> I DO.
AND INITIALLY WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATION WAS PRESENTING
WAS A CHOICE BETWEEN A MILITARY
STRIKE THAT WAS AN ACT OF WAR
AND DOING NOTHING.
AND IT TROUBLES ME THAT WE WERE
IGNORING THE POSSIBILITY OF A
DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION.
THE LAST COUPLE OF DAYS HAVE PUT
A DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION ON THE
TABLE, AND I BELIEVE IT SHOULD
BE A AGGRESSIVELY PURSUED.
>> SENATOR, DO YOU THINK THAT
RUSSIA IS A WORTHY ALLY IN THAT
PURSUIT?
>> YOU KNOW, I UNDERSTAND THOSE
WHO SAY WE CAN'T TRUST THE
RUSSIANS.
BUT THE FACT IS, THAT IT IS IN
THE RUSSIAN'S OWN SELF-INTEREST
TO DIFFUSE THIS CRISES.
SO I BELIEVE THAT WE SHOULD
ALLOW SOME TIME FOR THIS TO PLAY
OUT, TO SEE IF THE RUSSIANS WHO
ARE, AFTER ALL, THE CHIEF ALLIES
FOR ASSAD CAN, INDEED, CAUSE HIM
TO TURN OVER HIS STOCKPILE OF
CHEMICAL WEAPONS TO THE UNITED
NATIONS OR SOME OTHER
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION.
WITHOUT RUSSIAN WEAPONS, MONEY
AND SUPPORT, ASSAD WOULD BE
GONE.
SO IT IS THE RUSSIANS THAT HAVE
THE ABILITY TO INFLUENCE THE
SYRIAN REGINA WAY THAT REALLY NO
OTHER COUNTRY DOES EXCEPT FOR
ARENA AND WRITTEN IS A VERY
UNLIKELY PARTNER.
>> THE OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS I
HAVE HEARD TODAY SENATOR IS
WHETHER THE UNITED NATIONS IS
THE CORRECT VENUE FOR THIS AND
WHETHER IT'S EVEN EP FORCIBLE IF
YOU CAN FIND ALL OF THE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS, MOVE THEM SOMEWHERE
THEY THEY COULD BE MONITORED AND
CONTROL AND EVEN IF IT COULD
HAPPEN.
>> I'M NOT SAYING THIS WOULD BE
EASY BUT CERTAINLY IT IS
PREFERRABLE TO LAUNCHING A
MILITARY STRIKE ON A COUNTRY
THAT HAS NOT ATTACKED US.
CERTAINLY, IT IS PREFERABLE FOR
US TO TRY TO GET THE CHEMICAL
STOCKPILES, WHICH MAY BE THE
LARGEST IN THE WORLD, OUT OF
SYRIA SO THAT IT CAN NO LONGER
BE USED TO HARM AND KILL
INNOCENT CIVILIANS.
AND I WOULD SAY THAT IT HAS BEEN
DONE BEFORE.
LIBYA DID GIVE UP SOME OF ITS
NUCLEAR CAPABILITY.
SO WE HAVE PRECEDENT FOR THE
UNITED NATIONS BEING ABLE TO
TAKE CONTROL OF STOCKPILES OF
DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
>> SENATOR COLLINS, YOU HAVE
BEEN -- YOU HAVE GOTTEN THE
PRESIDENT'S BEST ARGUMENT ON
THIS IDEA OF A MILITARY STRIKE,
BOTH IN LUNCH, DINNER WITH THE
VICE PRESIDENT AND LUNCH ON
CAPITOL HILL TODAY.
WHAT IS THE YOUR BIGGEST
OBJECTION TO THE IDEA OF A
MILITARY STRIKE, IF YOU HAD
DECIDED YOU ARE OBJECTING, THAT
IS?
>> MY BIGGEST CONCERN IS THAT WE
WILL BE DRAGGED INTO YET ANOTHER
WAR IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
BECOME ENTANGLED IN A
PROTRACTED, DANGEROUS, AND UGLY
CIVIL WAR, WHERE IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT TO SORTOUT WHO ARE THE
GOOD GUYS, PARTICULARLY AT THIS
POINT, WHEN WE HAVE THE
TERRORIST GROUP HEZBOLLAH
HELPING THE SASS REGIME -- THE
ASSAD REGIME AND THE TWO GROUPS
THAT ARE AFFILIATED WITH AL
QAEDA.
I DON'T THINK THAT THIS WOULD
END WITH ONE MILITARY STRIKE.
AND I'M VERY WE'REY OF THE
UNITED STATES BEING DRAGGED IN
TO A PROTRACTED CIVIL WAR IN
SYRIA.
>> DO YOU KNOW, HAVING HEARD THE
PRESIDENT'S CASE FOR WAR AND THE
PRESIDENT'S CASE FOR DIPLOMACY
THAT HE HAD THIS IN HIS HIP
POCKET FOR A WHILE, THAT HE ALL
ALONG HAD BEEN USING THE
MILITARY STRIKE OPTION AS A WAY
OF PRESSURING CONGRESS AND
PRESSURING RUSSIA?
>> I ACTUALLY DON'T.
BECAUSE THE VERY FIRST
CONFERENCE CALL THAT WE HAD ON
THIS ISSUE DURING LABOR DAY
WEEKEND, WHEN SECRETARY KERRY
AND NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR
SUSAN RICE WAS BRIEFING US,
THERE WAS NO DISCUSSION OF
ANYTHING OTHER THAN A MILITARY
STRIKE, AND I DO NOT THINK THAT
THE ADMINISTRATION WAS ACTIVELY
PURSUING OTHER DIPLOMATIC MEANS
BEHIND THE SCENES.
NOW I'M NOT SURE OF THAT BUT
CERTAINLY INITIALLY, THEY WERE
NOT.
I THINK NOW THEY GENUINELY ARE.
AND I CERTAINLY HOPE THAT THEY
WILL BE SUCCESSFUL AND IT WILL
AVERT ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION OF
A MILITARY STRIKE.
>> IF THEY GENUINELY ARE NOW DO
YOU THINK IT'S BECAUSE OF THE
PRESSURE AND THE RELUCTANCE THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND SENATE AND
HOUSE HAVE BROUGHT TO BARE?
>> I DO.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT'S PLAN
INITIALLY WAS TO LAUNCH AND
STRIKE WITHOUT EVEN COMING TO
CONGRESS FOR APPROVAL.
WHEN IT WAS EVIDENCED THAT THAT
WOULD HAVE CREATED AN UPROAR
FROM THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND
FROM MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, HE
DECIDED TO GO TO US AS HE SHOULD
UNDER THE CONSTITUTION.
THAT IN TURN ALLOWED FOR MORE
TIME FOR THESE OTHER
ALTERNATIVES TO BE PUT FORTH BY
THE RUSSIANS.
>> YOU DON'T THINK THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS BEEN TALKING ABOUT
THIS ALL ALONG, AS HE SAID, WITH
VLADIMIR PUTIN, THEN?
>> I DON'T MEAN TO DOUBT THE
PRESIDENT IF HE SAYS HE HAS HAD
DISCUSSIONS WITH MR. PUTIN.
HE MAY WELL HAVE HAD DURING THE
RECENT CONFERENCE.
BUT CERTAINLY THE PUBLIC DEBATE
THAT WAS BEING PRESENTED TO
CONGRESS AND INDEED THE ACTUAL
RESIGNATION THAT THE PRESIDENT
SENT TO CONGRESS SIMPLY
SUPPORTED A MILITARY STRIKE AND
IT WAS EXTREMELY BROAD IN ITS
ESCAPE AND THERE WAS NO LANGUAGE
IN IT ABOUT, FIRST, TRYING TO
PURSUE A DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION.
>> SENATOR SUSAN COLLINS,
REPUBLICAN OF MAINE, THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>>
>> Woodruff: NOW, ANOTHER
PERSPECTIVE ON THE CONFLICT IN
SYRIA.
THE PBS NEWSHOUR ONLINE TEAM
RECENTLY VISITED WITH THREE
SYRIAN AMERICANS LIVING IN THE
WASHINGTON AREA.
THEY TALKED ABOUT THE CHALLENGES
OF WITNESSING THEIR HOMELAND'S
CIVIL WAR FROM ABROAD AND HOW
THEY THINK THE CONFLICT SHOULD
BE RESOLVED.
HERE ARE SOME EXCERPTS FROM
THOSE CONVERSATIONS.
>> I'M FROM SEARIA AND MY MOTHER
IS FROM DAMASCUS.
MY MOTHER SENT ME TO DAMASCUS
AND THEY FOR A LONG TIME WERE
INSULATED FROM SOME OF THE
EVENTS AND THEY STILL UNTIL
TODAY HAVE NOT LEFT AND THAT'S
MOSTLY, YOU KNOW, MY
GRANDMOTHER'S DECISION, YOU SORT
OF HELD THE FAMILY HOMESTEAD.
WE SPENT A LOT OF OUR LIVES
BUILDING THIS HOME.
AND I'M NOT ABOUT TO BECOME A
REFUGEE IN SOME COUNTRY FOR AN
UNFORESEEABLE AMOUNT OF TIME,
DEPENDING ON FOREIGN
ORGANIZATIONS, YOU KNOW, FOR MY
BREAD AND BUTTER.
IT HURTS ME THAT THERE'S
LITTLE WE CAN DO EXCEPT SEND
MONEY.
AND AT TIMES YOU JUST WANT TO BE
ABLE TO REMOVE THEM FROM THAT
SITUATION.
SO YOU SO OFRT HAVE TO PUT UP
WITH THE REALITY AS IT IS AND
JUST TALK TO EACH OTHER AND
SHARE PHOTOS AND TRY TO DISTRACT
YOURSELF FROM THE FACT THAT, GOD
FORBID, IT MATE BE THE LAST TIME
THAT YOU SPEAK TO THEM AGAIN.
>> IT'S HARD BECAUSE IN ONE
SENSE YOU'RE NOT LIVING THROUGH
IT AT ALL, BUT KNOWING THAT YOU
HAVE FAMILY WHO IS BENGI
AFFECTED BY IT, KNOWING THAT
THERE ARE PLACES THAT YOU WENT
TO WHEN YOU WERE YOUNGER AND MAY
NOT BE ABLE TO GO TO EVER AGAIN
OR IF YOU DO GO TO THEM, THEY
WILL BE DESTROYED, THAT TAKES A
TOLL ON YOU AND I THINK IT'S
SOMETHING THAT A LOT OF SYRIAN
AMERICANS ARE PROBABLY GOING
THROUGH.
>> I GO BACK AND FORTH A LOT.
I PERSONALLY AM VERY AGAINST
U.S. MILITARY STRIKES.
I DON'T THINK THAT WILL -- I
THINK THAT WILL INFLAME THE
SITUATION.
ONCE WE GET TO A POINTS THE
REGIME FALLS, AND IT WILL, IT
JUST DEPENDS ON HOW MUCH LONGER
AND HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE TO DIE.
BUT THESE PEOPLE THAT TINA
AMONGst ALL ODDS TO COME OUT
AND PROTEST, TO TAKE CONTROL OF
THE COUNTRY, BECAUSE THOSE
PEOPLE CONTINUE TO GO OUT
DESPITE ALL OF THE HORROR.
THEY COULD JUST SIT AT HOME AND
SAY, NO, WE'RE NOT GOING TO TAKE
THIS, BUT THEY DON'T.
THEY GIVE US MEET THE MOST HOPE.
>> I WAS BORN IN THE SECOND
LARGEST CITY IN SYRIA AT THAT
TIME.
DIRECT MILITARY INTERVENTION IS
CRIPPLING THE REGIME AND TAKING
IT COMPLETELY OUT OF THE PICTURE
THEN I AM FOR IT BUT IF IT'S
GOING TO TAKE A FEW MISSILES
HERE AND THERE AND DESTROY SOME
ASSETS IN THE COUNTRY AND THE
REGIME SURVIVE, THEN I'M AGAINST
IT.
YEAH, A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO, THE
NEIGHBORHOOD, ONE OF MY SISTERS
LIVES, AND THE AREA WAS SHELLED
AND FIVE BUILDINGS CRUMBLED DOWN
AND AT LEAST 50 PEOPLE DIED IN
THAT AREA.
AND I THOUGHT MAYBE MY SISTER
WAS ONE OF THEM.
SO I CALLED AND FORTUNATELY SHE
WAS ARRIVED BUT HER HEART WAS
BROKEN BECAUSE IT WAS CLOSE BY,
IT WAS PEOPLE SHE KNEW, IT WAS
PEOPLE I KNEW, AND THERE'S
NOTHING WE COULD DO.
>> CAN YOU IMAGINE HOW
RESEARCHING IT IS FOR THESE
PEOPLE THOUSANDS OF MILES AWAY
AND THERE'S NOTHING THEY CAN DO
BUT WATCH.
>> AND YOU TALK TO THE VOICES OF
THOSE AFFECTED BY IT NOT JUST
THOSE IN THE LINE OF FIRE BUT
PEOPLE MILES AND MILES AWAY.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO HEAR THE
VOICES AS WELL AS THE LAWMAKERS.
>> GOOD POINT.
WITH CHEMICAL WEAPONS UNDER
INTERNATIONAL CONTROL.
FOR THAT WE TURN TO JEFFREY
BROWN.
>> IT'S A STOCKPILE
>> Brown: IT'S A STOCKPILE
THAT'S BELIEVED TO BE THE
LARGEST IN THE WORLD.
A PRE-WAR MAP COMPILED BY THE
MONTERREY INSTITUTE SHOWS WHERE
SYRIA'S CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND
PRODUCTION FACILITIES WERE
THOUGHT TO BE, SPREAD THROUGH
THE WESTERN HALF OF THE COUNTRY.
DEFINITIVE INFORMATION ON THE
CURRENT SITUATION IS MUCH HARDER
TO COME BY.
TO WALK US THROUGH ALL THIS WE
TURN AGAIN TO CHARLES DUELFER, A
TOP U.N. WEAPONS INSPECTOR IN
IRAQ DURING THE 1990S.
AFTER THE U.S. INVASION IN 2003,
HE LED THE C.I.A.'S IRAQ SURVEY
GROUP, WHICH CONTINUED TO LOOK
FOR WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION.
HE'S AUTHOR OF "HIDE AND SEEK:
THE SEARCH FOR TRUTH IN IRAQ."
>> THANK YOU.
>> FIRST THE QUESTION, WHAT DOES
IT MEANTO  HAND OVER CHEMICAL
WEAPONS?
WHAT HAPPENS PHYSICALLY?
WHO DOES IT?
>> WELL, THE PROCESS WOULD BE,
PRESUMABLY, SET OUT BY IT
SECURITY COUNCIL WHERE THEY PUT
THE BURDEN OF PROOF AND THE
BURDEN OF DOING THESE THINGS ON
THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT.
SO THEY WOULD CONSTITUTE A GROUP
OF WEAPONS INSPECTORS BUT THE
BURDEN OF SHOWING WHERE THE
WEAPONS WERE AND ACCOUNTING FOR
THEM WOULD BE ON THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT.
THEY WOULD SHOW THE WEAPON
INSPECTORS WHERE THEY WERE, HOW
MANY THEY HAD AND THE WEAPONS
INSPECTORS WOULD HAVE TO VERIFY
THE VERACITY OF THAT.
>> IF THAT'S THE CASE AND BASED
ON EXPERIENCE, WHAT KIND OF
GROUND RULES, BECAUSE YOU THINK
ABOUT WHAT COULD GO WRONG AND
HOW TO DO IT RIGHT, WHAT KIND OF
GROUND RULES WOULD YOU LIKE TO
SET?
>> WE HAVE DONE THIS
SUCCESSFULLY IN THE CASE OF
IRAQ.
IN 1999 THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS
WERE FAR MORE SUCCESSFUL THAN
THEY KNEW.
AT THAT POINT IN TIME WE LAID
OUT VERY STRICT RULES BY WHICH
THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS HAD
ACCESS TO LOCATIONS, TO
DOCUMENTS, TO PEOPLE.
IT WAS A WEAPONS INSPECTORS THAT
COULD SELECT THE LOCATION THEY
WOULD INSPECT.
IT WAS THE OBLIGATION OF THE
COUNTRY, IN THIS CASE DAMASCUS
TO CONSOLIDATE THE WEAPONS AT
CERTAIN KNOWN LOCATIONS AND
PROVIDE AN INVENTORY OF WHAT
THEY HAD, AND THEN THE WEAPONS
INSPECTORS WOULD EITHER DESTROY
THEM OR GUARD THEM OR ACCOUNT
FOR THEM OR PUT THEM UNDER LOCK
AND KEY, PERHAPS IN SOME KIND OF
A BUNKER THAT WOULD HAVE
INERNATIONAL SUPERVISION.
>> AND HOW EASY WOULD IT BE FOR
THE SYRIANS TO EITHER MOVE OR
HIDE THESE THINGS IF THEY WANTED
TO MAKE IT DIFFICULT?
>> WELL, THIS IS THE CHALLENGE
OF BEING A WEAPONS INSPECTOR.
THE SYRIANS WOULD GIVE THEM A
STATEMENT OF THEIR INVENTORY.
CERTAINLY THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS
WOULD COUNT THE AGENT THAT THEY
HAD.
BUT BY ACCESS TO OTHER SYRIANS,
PEOPLE IN THE MILITARY THEY MAY
BE ABLE TO INTERVIEW, THEY COULD
TEST THE VERACITY OF THAT AND
THEY COULD GO TO OTHER COUNTRIES
THAT MAY HAVE DATA.
FOR EXAMPLE, COUNTRIES WHICH MAY
HAVE SOLD SCUD MISSILES TO THE
SYRIANS AND THEY COULD PROVIDE
DATA ON HOW MUCH THEY PROVIDED
TO THE SYRIANS.
THERE'S A NUMBER OF ANGLES THE
WEAPONS INSPECTORS COULD PURSUE.
>> CAN YOU EVER BE SURE THAT
YOU'VE NOT THEM ALL?
HOW WOULD YOU KNOW?
>> WELL WE WERE NEVER SURE IN
THE CASE OF IRAQ AND IT TURNED
OUT WE DID KNOW A HELL OF A LOVE
MORE THAN WE THOUGHT.
BUT CERTAINLY UNDER THE CURRENT
CIRCUMSTANCES WITH SYRIA WE CAN
GET IT DOWN BETTER THAN IT IS
NOW AND BY THAT WHOLE PROCESS
SYRIA WILL LOSE THE ADVANTAGE OF
HAVING THESE CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
IT'S A MAJOR STEP NOW THAT THEY
EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE THEY HAVE SUCH
STOCKS.
THIS IS A SIZABLE ACHIEVEMENT BY
THE RUSSIANS.
IN THE CASE OF IRAQ YOU HAD A
CAT & MOUSE GAME.
IS IT POSSIBLE OR LIKELY THAT
SOMETHING LIKE THIS WOULD HAPPEN
IN SEAR YAR?
>> WE WILL HAVE TO SEE, AND THE
WEAPONS INSPECTORS WOULD HAVE TO
TAKE THAT AS ONE OF THE
POSSIBILITIES AND THEY WOULD
HAVE TO PLAN THEIR INSPECTIONS
IN CERTAIN WAYS SO THEY CAN TAKE
AT FROM THE POSSIBILITY THEY'RE
STILL HIDING SOMETHING.
NEVERTHELESS YOU CAN REDUCE THE
UNCERTAINTY, REDUCE THE
UNCERTAINTY A FAIR AMOUNT BY
ACCOUNTING FOR EMISSIONS, BY
ACCOUNTING FOR THE PRODUCTION
RUNS, THE PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT.
CERTAINLY YOU CAN GET RID OF THE
BULK OF THE SYRIAN WEAPONS
CAPABILITY.
>> ANOTHER BIG DIFFERENCE HERE
CLEARLY WOULD BE THAT, I MEAN,
FROM IRAQ TO NOW, THIS WOULD
BETATING PLACE IN THE MIDST OF A
CIVIL WAR, THERE WOULD BE
FIGHTING ALL AROUND PRESUMABLY?
>> AND ESTABLISHING THE GROUND
RULES FOR THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS
TO GO INTO THE COUNTRY, THE
BURDEN OF SECURITY WOULD HAVE TO
BE ON THE GOVERNMENT.
BUT I HAVE TO SAY THAT
PRESUMABLY, THESE ARE THE MOST
VALUABLE AND SECURE THINGS IN
SYRIA THAT THE ARMY AND THE
GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE THEM IN
AREAS THEY COULD PROTECT AND
THEREFORE THEY SHOULD BE ABLE TO
LEAD THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS TO
THOSE SITES OR BRING THE WEAPONS
INSPECTORS TO THE SITES SO HEY
COULD DO WHAT A I HAVE TO DO.
>> HO LOWNG WOULD THIS TAKE,
THINKING ABOUT THE PRESIDENT
GIVING THIS TALK TONIGHT, HOW
LONG DOES SOMETHING LIKE THIS
TAKE TO VERIFY AND TO GET THE
WEAPONS?
>> WELL, THE FIRST STEP IS TO
NEGOTIATE THE TERMS UNDER WHICH
THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS ARE GOING
TO OPERATE.
AND THAT'S PROBABLY WITH THE
RATE OF THE U.N. DOING IT, IT
WILL BE WEEKS RATHER THAN DAYS.
>> WEEKS?
>> WEEKS.
>> JUST TO NEGOTIATE HOW THIS IS
GOING TO WORK?
>> YEAH.
WHAT ACCESS, WHO GETS TO PICK
THE SITES AND THERE'S A
FUNDAMENTAL POINT DOES THIS
HAPPEN UNDER THE THREAT OF A
MILITARY ATTACK?
IN OTHER WORDS IS IT A
CO-VERSIVE ELEMENT OR AS RUSSIA
SAYS, THE THREAT OF FORCE HAS TO
BE TAKEN OFF THE TABLE FIRST?
I THINK THAT'S SALABLE, BECAUSE
EVEN IF THE THREAT OF FORCE IS
NOT EXPLICIT, IT'S IMPLICIT UP
TO THIS POINT.
>> THAT'S THE BIG
BUT ONCE THEY DECIDE, IF WE GET
PAST THE WEEKS OF NEGOTIATIONS
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT, HOW LONG
DOES IT TAKE TO ACTUALLY GO IN
AND GAIN CONTROL OF THE WEAPONS
AND FACILITIES.
>> THE BULK OF IT WILL HAPPEN
QUICKLY.
THERE ARE CHEMICAL WEAPONS
CERTIFICATES THOUGHT THE WORLD.
THEY CAN BE ASSEMBLED.
IT WILL BE CLEAR VERY EARLY ON
IF THE SYRIANS WILL BRING THEM
TO THE SITES OF WHERE THESE
WEAPONS ARE.
IT COULD DRAG ON OVER TIME BUT
THERE WILL BE EARLY INDICATIONS
I THINK, IN THE COURSE OF A
MONTH OR TWO, THAT WE WILL SEE
IF SYRIA IS IN FACT SERIOUS.
BUT AGAIN THAT ASSUMES
OVERCOMING SOME DIPLOMATIC RULES
IN THE U.N.
>> A MONTH OR TWO.
I'M ASKING YOU BECAUSE WE ARE IN
SORT OF DAY TO DAY MODE HERE
THINKING ABOUT WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN
BUT TO PURSUE THIS WOULD BE A
QUESTION OF NOW MONTHS.
>> FOR THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS TO
GET ON THE GROUND AND AGAIN
GETTING A SERIOUS HANDLE ON THE
CONTROL OF THE WEAPONS AND WHAT
THE INVENTORIES ARE, IT WOULD
TAKE THAT LONG.
BUT THERE WOULD BE EARLY
INDICATIONS ABOUT WHETHER BASHAR
AL-ASSAD IS SERIOUS ABOUT THIS
SO THE DIPLOMATS AND THE
POLITICIANS WILL GET APPEAR
EARLY INDICATION OF JUST IF THIS
IS REALLY GOING TO WORK OUT.
>> CHARLES DUELFER THANKS AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: WE RETURN TO ANOTHER
TROUBLED SPOT IN THE MIDDLE
EAST: EGYPT.
TWO MONTHS AGO, THE ARMY DEPOSED
THE COUNTRY'S ISLAMIST
PRESIDENT, THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD'S MOHAMMED MORSI.
HE WAS ELECTED AFTER THE HEADY
2011 UPRISING THAT OVERTHREW
PRESIDENT HOSNI MUBARAK.
NOW EGYPT'S SECULAR FORCES HAVE
TURNED THE TABLES.
BUT DOES THIS MEAN MORE
DEMOCRACY FOR EGYPT, OR A RETURN
TO THE PAST?
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS FROM CAIRO.
>> THE CHAMBER OF THE UPPER
HOUSE OF PARLIAMENT, A COMMITTEE
REWRITING EGYPT'S CONSTITUTION
FO THER SECOND TIME IN AS MANY
YEARS, CON VEEBD AT THE INITIAL
SESSION ON SUNDAY.
IT WAS AN OVER-50 CLDOU OF
STATESMEN CLERICS, BUSINESS
LEADERS AND GENERALS AND ONE
FIGURE, A YOUNG MAN WEARING A
T-SHIRT NO ONE HAD HEARD OF.
HE WAS MAHMOUD BATTER, A LEADER
OF THE REBEL MOVEMENT THAT LED A
PETITION AGAINST MOHAMMED MORSI
AND HIS MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD-LED
GOVERNMENT, TRIGGERING
NATIONWIDE PROTEST ON JUNE 30.
TWO DAYS LATER ON JULY 3, THE
ARMY CHIEF APPEARED ON
TELEVISION TO SAY EGYPT'S ARMED
FORCES HAD REMOVED THE FIRST
DEMOCRATICALLY ELECTED LEADER IN
THE COUNTRY'S HISTORY.
ONE OF THE FELLOW CO-FOUNDERS,
MACK MEULD AL-FAKA HAS NO
APOLOGIES FOR RETURNING TO THE
MILL TORE TO OUT OUST THE
PRESIDENT HE VOTED FOR, WHO CAME
TO BELIEVE HE WAS SERVING THE
ISLAMIST AGENDA, NOT EGYPT.
>> ACTUALLY ALL OF THE
CO-FOUNDERS VOTEDDED FOR HIM.
>> SO YOU FELT BETRAYED?
>> THE BROTHERHOOD AND THEIR
AMBASSADOR AND MOHAMMED MORSI
BETRAYED US, BETRAYED THE
EGYPTIAN PEOPLE.
EEVEN BETRAYED HIS
RESPONSIBILITY.
>> GENERAL ALSISI GAVE THAT
RESPONSIBILITY TO AN INTERIM
CIVILIAN-LED GOVERNMENT HEADED
BY JUDGE MONSIEUR, OPPOSING A
STATE OF EMERGENCY, ALSISI
PROMISED THE SHORT-TERM
GOVERNMENT WOULD MOVE BRISKLY
DOWN A ROAD MAP TO ENSURE
CIVILIAN DEMOCRACY WITHIN NINE
MONTHS.
>> IN MANY CORNERS OF THIS
ANCIENT CITY CAPITAL OF THE
ARAB'S WORLD'S MOST POPULIST
COUNTRY, WE FOUND PEOPLE FEEL
SAFER.
MANY THINK THE GOVERNMENT IS
ONLY A FACADE AND THE REAL POWER
LIES WITH GENERAL AL-SISI.
BUT THEY SEEM FINE WITH THAT FOR
NOW.
>> WE FOUND PUBLIC RELATIONS
MANAGER AYMAN FAHRAD SITTING IN
A CAFE.
>> WHO DO YOU THINK IS RUNNING
THE COUNTRY RIGHT NOW?
>> NOW -- THE GENERAL RULE.
>> GENERAL ALSISI'S RULE.
>> PROTECTING THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD AND I WOULD LIKE TO
SALUTE HIM.
>> WHEN I ASKED WHO WAS RUNNING
THE COUNTRY YOU SAID PRESIDENT
MONSIEUR BUT YOU WERE LAUGHING.
WHY WERE YOU LAUGHING.
>> I FEEL LIKE YOU KNOW THE
ANSWER.
>> THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT HAS
ONE JOB THAT CAN'T WAIT NINE
MONTHS.
TO START REBUILDING AN ECONOMY
BATTERED BY THE CONSTANT STRIFE
SINCE THE 2011 UP RISING THAT
TOPPLED LONG TIME RULER HOSNI
MUBARAK.
THE STREETS ARE EMPTY OF
TOURISTS AND FOREIGN INVESTORS,
THE COUNTRY'S MOST VISITD SITE,
THE PYRAMIDS, NOW A GHOST TIME.
THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT IS
SURVIVING ON CASH INFUSIONS FROM
THE GULF.
YET NOR DIFFICULT WILL BE
REBUILDING THE TRUST BETWEEN TWO
GROUPS OF EGYPTIANS WHO UNITED
IN THE REVOLUTION OF 2011 BUT
COULDN'T AGREE ON ANYTHING AFTER
THAT.
IN ONE CAMP, MORE SECULAR MINDED
EGYPTIANS LIKE THIS FORMER
PARLIAMENTARIAN.
IN HER APARTMENT IN THE UPSCALE
DISTRICT, SHE INSISTED MORSI'S
OUST WAS NOT A QUEUE BUT A
POPULAR IMPEACHMENT.
>> WHAT YOU SAW WAS A STRUGGLE
FROM THE SOUL OF EGYPT, A
SOCIETY DIVIDED, ONE THAT WANTED
A REAL CIVIL SOCIETY AND THE
OTHER ONE THAT WANTED A THEO SAI
APPEARED LIKE A BREATH OF HOPE.
>> HE IS LOOKED UPON AS A
NATIONAL SAVIOR.
>> BUT ACROSS TOWN IN SUBURBAN
NEW CAIRO AT A PROTEST THAT WAS
CALLED ON SHORT NOTICE, COMPUTER
SCIENCE PROFESSOR MOHAMMED SAW
NO HEROS.
>> DEMOCRACY DOESN'T COME ON
TANKS.
DEMOCRACY COMES THROUGH THE
BALLOT BOX.
HERE TO PROTECT AGAINST THE
REGIME AND I'M SURE YOU KNOW OF
THE KILLING AND SO FORTH --
>> THE KILLING STARTED EVEN
BEFORE MORSI'S REMOVAL AMIDst
THE BLOODY CLIMAX AUGUST 14 WHEN
THE POLICE MOVED IN TO DISPERSE
TWO BROTHERHOOD SIT INS IN
CAIRO.
HUNDREDS OF PROTESTERS WERE
KILLED THAT DAY.
WHAT MAY SEEM SURPRISING IS THAT
MANY SELF STYLED LIBERALS TEE
FEND THE TAKE OVER AND THE CROCK
DOWN THAT FOLLOWED.
>> OBJECT TO THE DEMOCRACY EGYPT
ITSELF.
>>
>> A LEADING SECULAR VOICE IN
THE 2011 REVOLUTION SAID THE
MILITARY INTERVENTION AND CRACK
DOWN PREVENTED CIVIL WAR.
>> DO YOU CONSIDER YOURSELF A
LIBERAL?
>> IN A WAY, YES.
SOCIALLY LIBERAL.
>> SO DO YOU THINK THERE'S
ANYTHING INCONSISTENT IN BEING A
LIBERAL AND YET NOW SO MANY
LIBERALS SUPPORT THIS -- THE
INTERIM GOVERNMENT IN WHICH THE
MOST POWERFUL FIGURE IS GENERAL
ALSISI.
>> EGYPTIANS WOULD HAVE GUNS
THEMSELVES AND THERE WOULD HAVE
BEEN A REAL MASSACRE.
>> THERE ARE A FEW, VERY FEW,
LIBERAL VOICES WHO HAVE RAYED
OBJECTIONS TO THE MILITARY'
TAKEOVER.
>> MANY PEOPLE IN EGYPT NOW
BELIEVE THAT THE SOLUTION IS
WITH THE MILITARY, AND THIS IS A
PROBLEM, AT LEAST FOR ME.
>> AHMED MAHER HEADS THE APRIL 6
MOVEMENT WHICH SPEARHEADED THE
2011 UPRISING.
>> THE BROTHERHOOD BREACHED
POWER BY THE BALLOT BOX.
SO WE COULD, EVEN IF NOT
IMMEDIATELY, WE COULD HAVE
REMOVED HIM THAT WAY.
WE MADE MANY MISTAKES BUT THE
RETURN TO THE MILITARY RULE
AGAIN IS VERY HARMFUL.
USING THE MILITARY NOW WILL MEAN
THEY COULD DEPOSE ANY PRESIDENT
IN THE FUTURE.
>> THE OUST WAS REFERRED TO AS A
QUEUE.
HE HAS BEEN PAYING THE PRICE,
RULED UNDER STATE INVESTIGATION,
SHUNNED BY FAMILY AND FRIENDS,
ANDUBLI PCLY VILIFIED BY EGYPT'S
MEDIA WHICH HAS FALLEN IN LINE
BEHIND GENERAL ALSISI.
>> THE PEOPLE THAT ARE CRITICAL
OR HAVE MISGIVINGS REGARDING THE
ROLE OF THE MILITARY, THEY ARE
ATTACKED VICIOUSLY IN THE
STREETS AND THE MEDIA.
>> WHO IS RUNNING THE COUNTRY
RIGHT NOW?
>> DO YOU WANT TO PUT ME IN JAIL
OR WHAT?
I THINK THAT, YES, THE MILITARY
ESTABLISHMENT HAS A LARGE ROLE
IN GOVERNMENT, EVEN WHEN MORSI
WAS THERE.
>> DO YOU SEE IT IN DANGER.
>> YOU ARE ACCUSING ME THAT I'M
A TRAITOR AND AN AGENT, THAT I
AM BEING PAID TO PREVENT CHAOS
IN EGYPT.
THIS INDICATES THAT OUR VOICE IS
ANNOYING TO THEM.
>> WELL WHAT IS INCREDIBLY
SUCCESSFUL IS A SMEAR CAMPAIGN
AGAINST THE FEW DISSENTING
VOICES THAT CRITICIZE THE
MILITARY AND THE POLICE.
>> THE COUNTRY DIRECTOR FOR
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH SAYS VOICES
LIKE MAHERS CAN'T GET ON TV ANY
LONGER IN EGYPT.
>> THAT SMEAR CAMPAIGN HAS SHOWN
THE POWER OF THE MEDIA.
THIS STATION ON TV WAS ONE OF
THE VOICES FOR INDEPENDENT, YOU
KNOW, HOSTING INDEPENDENT
VOICES, HOSTING THE ACTIVIST WHO
FIRST MADE APRIL 2011 HAPPEN.
>> I THINK IT SHOWS HOW IT HAS
NARROWED, MORE THAN NARROWED, IT
HAS DISAPPEARED, THE DISSENT.
THERE WERE A LOT OF OPTIONS IN
2011 AND 2012 AND ALL OF THAT IS
BEING ROLLED BACK NOW BECAUSE
THERE'S ONLY A SECURITY RESPONSE
NOT A POLITICAL RESPONSE.
>> WE TOOK THE TOUGH CHARGE THAT
AFTER THE 2011 REVOLUTION, IT'S
UNDER MINED BY THE GOVERNMENT
VIA HABIB EL-BEEM.
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S POSSIBLE
FOR ANYONE TO RETURN TO THE WAY
IT WAS AFTER APRIL 25.
NOBODY CAN DESCRIBE THE STATE
EGYPT IS IN RIGHT NOW AS BEING
THE PERFECT STATE OF AFFAIRS.
IT'S AN IMPERFECT SITUATION BUT
IT IS ONE FOR WHICH I PROGRESS
FORWARD OR WE CAN GO BACKWARDS.
>> HOW CONFIDENT ARE YOU THAT AT
THE END OF THIS TIME FRAME,
WHICH COMES UP IN APRIL, THAT
THERE WILL BE HAVE BEEN A FULL
RESTORATION OF DEMOCRACY AND
THAT THE MILITARY WILL STEP
BACK?
>> I'M QUITE CONFIDENT AND QUITE
OPTIMISTIC ABOUT THIS PROCESS
BEING COMPLETED BY APRIL.
BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT MAKES ME
RELAX.
BUT WE HAVE TO LEARN FROM THE
LAST COUPLE OF YEARS AND
COMPROMISE A LITTLE BIT AS LONG
AS --
>> ASs EGYPTIANS WATCH THE
PROCEEDINGS EACH DAY THEY'RE
FAILING TO COMPROMISE IS
BECOMING VIVID AND THE BLOODSHED
UNDER MUBARAK THE PAST THREE
YEARS, THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT
THAT FOLLOWED AND THE BROTHER
HOOD BUT A FEW BLOCKS AWAY
UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR MOHAMMED
IBRAHIM, OUT SHOPPING WITH HER
YOUNG DAUGHTER SAID
POLARIZATION, NOT THE SPIRIT OF
COMPROMISE AFFECTS EGYPT NOW.
>> THERE ARE TWO GROUPS.
IF YOU ARE NOT WITH ME YOU ARE
OPPOSITE OF ME AND THERE'S NO
LOGIC IN WHEN WE SPEAK WITH EACH
OTHER.
I DON'T LISTEN TO.
>> WHAT WILL IT TAKE TO CHANGE
THAT?
>> WE WILL TAKE MUCH MORE TIME
IN ORDER TO BE LIKE AMERICAN
PEOPLE, LIKE ENGLISH PEOPLE, TO
BE MOCRDEATIC FROM INSIDE.
>> TIME EGYPT TODAY MAY NOT
HAVE.
>> WE WILL HAVE MORE REPORTING
FROM MARGARET THIS WEEK
INCLUDING TOMORROW.
HER INTERVIEW WITH EGYPT'S PRIME
MINISTER.
>> Woodruff: NOW, AMID CIVIL WAR
IN SYRIA, AND TALK OF
INVOLVEMENT BY THE U.S., WE GET
ANOTHER TAKE ON WAR AND ITS
IMPACT, THROUGH THE LENS OF A
CAMERA.
JEFF IS BACK WITH OUR LOOK.
>> Brown: A MARINE IN
AFGHANISTAN HAS A CLOSE CALL
WITH TALIBAN FIGHTERS.
A REPUBLICAN MILITIAWOMAN
TRAINING ON THE BEACH OUTSIDE
BARCELONA IN THE SPANISH CIVIL
WAR.
A BOSNIAN SOLDIER STANDS ON A
MASS GRAVE OUTSIDE HIS DESTROYED
HOME.
A CLASS PHOTO OF YOUNG CHILDREN,
MANY LATER KILLED IN ARGENTINA'S
"DIRTY WAR."
AND SO FAMILIAR NOW: A JET
CRASHING INTO THE WORLD TRADE
CENTER ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2001.
IMAGES FROM 165 YEARS OF WAR,
BROADLY DEFINED TO CAPTURE WHAT
HAPPENS BEFORE, DURING, AND
AFTER BATTLE, IN COMBAT, AND ON
THE HOME FRONT, PART OF A WIDE-
RANGING EXHIBITION, NOW AT
WASHINGTON'S CORCORAN GALLERY OF
ART.
IT WAS DEVELOPED AND OPENED AT
THE HOUSTON MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS
BY CURATOR ANNE TUCKER.
>> THERE WAS A HUMAN STORY TO BE
TOLD THROUGH THE EYES OF
PHOTOGRAPHERS ABOUT THE FULL
ASPECT OF WAR.
WHEN PEOPLE TALKED ABOUT WAR
PHOTOGRAPHY, IT WAS EITHER
FIGHTING OR DEATH, AND WE JUST
THOUGHT THERE WAS A MUCH GREATER
STORY, AND WE WANTED TO OPEN THE
DISCUSSION UP.
>> Brown: MANY FAMOUS IMAGES ARE
HERE, AND THERE ARE MOMENTS OF
WORLD-SHATTERING DRAMA, LIKE
THIS ONE TAKEN FROM A JAPANESE
PLANE.
>> THE TORPEDOES GOING INTO
PEARL HARBOR.
I STILL CRY WHEN I SEE THAT
PICTURE.
>> Brown: YOU SEE IT FROM ABOVE.
>> YOU SEE THE TORPEDOeS GOING
INTO BATTLESHIP ROW, AND YOU
THINK ABOUT THE PEOPLE SITTING
ON THEIR BUNKS, WRITING A LETTER
HOME, GETTING DRESSED FOR
CHURCH, AND THEY'RE GOING TO
DIE.
THEN THERE ARE PICTURES THAT
FEATURE AN INDIVIDUAL, AND YOU
GRIEVE FOR THAT INDIVIDUAL OR
YOU WONDER WHAT HAPPENED TO
THEM.
YOU SEE THAT PICTURE BY CAROLYN
COLE OF A SOLDIER WAITING TO GO
TO BATTLE WITH ALL OF HIS WAR
PAINT, AND YOU CAN'T HELP BUT
WONDER, DID HE SURVIVE, YOU
KNOW?
IS HE HOME?
IS HE OKAY?
>> Brown: THE EXHIBITION IS
ORGANIZED BY THEMES THAT CROSS
THROUGH WARS AND TIME, INCLUDING
RERUITCMENT, SEEN THROUGH THE
EYES OF AUSTRALIANS HEADING OFF
FOR BATTLE DURING WORLD WAR I,
CAPTURED BY JOSIAH BARNES;
EXECUTIONS, A SHIRT WORN BY
MEXICAN EMPEROR MAXIMILIAN
DURING HIS EXECUTION IN 1867, A
PHOTO BY FRANCOIS AUBERT; AND
HOMECOMING AND MEMORIALS.
IN "BEDROOMS FOR THE FALLEN,"
FOR EXAMPLE, ASHLEY GILBERTSON
CAPTURES THE CHILDHOOD ROOMS OF
AMERICAN SOLDIERS KILLED IN IRAQ
AND AFGHANISTAN-- PORTRAITS OF
LIVES THAT ARE NO MORE.
ANNE TUCKER SAYS SHE AND HER
TEAM SAW PATTERNS TO WARS AND
THEIR PORTRAYAL.
>> THE PATTERNS WERE, FOR
INSTANCE, PHOTOGRAPHS OF WOMEN
WEEPING ON A GRAVE.
WE ONLY HAVE ONE IN THE
EXHIBITION, BUT WE SAW HUNDREDS.
SOMEBODY IN A UNIFORM WITH A
PROTHESIS.
THERE'S ONLY ONE IN THE
EXHIBITION, BUT WE SAW HUNDREDS.
PEOPLE IN MILITARY FORMATION.
PEOPLE IN TRANSPORT.
WE BEGAN TO LOOK AT THESE
RECURRING TYPES OF PICTURES AND
REALIZE THESE WERE THE STAGES OF
WAR.
>> Brown: ANOTHER THEME:
WAITING, THE IN-BETWEEN MOMENTS
BEFORE THE BATTLE BEGINS, AS IN
THIS PHOTOGRAPH OF ITALIAN WOMEN
AMBULANCE DRIVERS KNITTING.
>> IT IS MOMENTARY CALM, BECAUSE
THE FATALITY RATE FOR THESE
WOMEN WAS VERY HIGH.
OUR REASON FOR PUTTING IT IN THE
EXHIBITION IS PRECISELY TO SHOW
THOSE QUIET MOMENTS AND TO SHOW
THESE ESSENTIALLY HEROIC WOMEN
WHO ARE CIVILIANS OR MILITARY
WHO ARE PART OF THE STORY.
>> Brown: PHOTOJOURNALIST LOUIE
PALU HAS COVERED THE WAR IN
AFGHANISTAN SINCE 2006.
HIS PORTRAIT OF MARINE GUNNERY
SARGENT CARLOS "O.J." ORUJELA
WAS TAKEN AFTER A MUDDY PATROL
IN 125 DEGREE HEAT THROUGH AN
AREA FILLED WITH I.E.D.'S.
IT BECAME A SIGNATURE IMAGE FOR
THE EXHIBITION.
>> I'D GO OUT EVERY DAY WITH
THESE MARINES, AND INSTEAD OF
TAKING PHOTOGRAPHS OF THEM ON
PATROL, WHICH I'D BEEN DOING FOR
YEARS, I WOULD GET TO KNOW THEM
AND TALK TO THEM.
I WANTED TO KNOW THEM SO THAT I
COULD PHOTOGR T
ON THAT EXPERIENCE TO THE
VIEWERS.
I REALLY WANTED A PHOTOGRAPH
THAT CONFRONTED YOU AND BROUGHT
YOU TO TASK TO UNDERSTAND THE
PSYCHOLOGY OF WHAT THE
EXPERIENCE OF WAR IS.
>> Brown: WILL MICHELS, EXHIBIT
CO-CURATOR AND COLLECTIONS
PHOTOGRAPHER AT THE HOUSTON
MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, SAYS WORKS
LIKE PALU'S ARE A MIRROR ON TO
THE SUBJECT AND THE
PHOTOGRAPHER.
>> I'M A BIG BELIEVER THAT
ESPECIALLY WITH MANY OF THE
PORTRAITS, IT'S A DOUBLE
PORTRAIT.S MUCH
ABOUT THE PERSON IN THE PICTURE
AS THE PHOTOGRAPHER HIS OR HER
SELF.
IT'S THE PHOTOGRAPHERS' CHOICES
THAT MADE THE PORTRAIT AS
POWERFUL AS IT IS.
THE BETTER THE PORTRAIT, THE
MORE UNIVERSAL IT BECOMES.
IT BECOMES EVERY SOLDIER.
IT BECOMES NOT A SPECIFIC ONE.
IT BECOMES THE WHOLE EXPERIENCE.
>> Brown: SOME OF THE IMAGES
HERE ARE HORRIFIC.
A SIGN AT THE ENTRANCE WARNING
VIEWERS IS A REMINDER.
THE PORTRAYAL OF DEAD BODIES AND
OTHER IMAGES HAVE OFTEN BEEN
DIFFICULT FOR THE PUBLIC, THE
NEWS MEDIA-- INCLUDING OUR
PROGRAM-- AND FOR GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS.
ANOTHER FRAUGHT ISSUE IN THE
HISTORY OF WAR PHOTOGRAPHY: THE
SHEER BEAUTY OF IMAGES THAT
PORTRAY DEATH AND HORROR, THE
BALANCING OF DOCUMENTATION, AND
AESTHETICS.
TUCKER EXPLAINS HER APPROACH.
>> IF THE BEAUTY BRINGS SOMEONE
TO ENGAGE WITH A PICTURE, THEN
IT'S ESSENTIAL.
AND SO YOU FEEL THE PUSH-PULL TO
THE AESTHETICS AND THE HORROR,
AND THAT WAR WITHIN YOURSELF IS
FRUITFUL TO YOUR THINKING MORE
ABOUT THE PICTURE.
>> Brown: THE EXHIBITION OFFERS
VISITORS THE CHANCE TO SHARE
THEIR OWN REACTIONS IN A
REFLECTION ROOM, PART OF THE
CONTINUING EXCHANGE AMONG
WARRIORS, PHOTOGRAPHERS, AND
VIEWERS CAPTURING THE HORROR,
BEAUTY, BOREDOM, BRAVERY, AND SO
MUCH MORE OF WAR.
CAME TO BE ON OUR UPBEAT PAGE.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
LOOK AHEAD AT THE PRESIDENT'S
TASK TONIGHT, FOR THAT WE'RE
JOINED BY TWO NEWSHOUR REGULARS,
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
>> SO, DAVID, WHAT HAVE YOU
LOOKING FOR TONIGHT?
>> I FEEL SO SORRY FOR THE
SPEECHWRITERS MUCH THIS IS LIKE
A NIGHTMARE FOR THEM.
THERE ARE WAR SPEECHES THEY
COULD GIVE, THERE ARE PEACE
SPEECHES THEY CAN GIVE.
THIS IS SOMEWHERE IN THE MIDDLE
HERE.
IT'S WE'RE SORT OF AMBIVALENTLY
SUPPORTING THE RUSSIAN PROPOSAL
THAT WE MAY NOT BE SUPPORTING,
SO I GUESS WHAT HE CAN DO IS TWO
THINGSES, ONE LAY OUT THE CASE
WHERE WHY WE CARE AND WHY WE
SHOULD BE INVOLVED IN ANY WAY
WITH SYRIA AND WITH THE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AND, SECOND, SOME
BROADER IMAGE OF THE REGION, OF
WHAT OUR GRAND STRATEGY IS IN
THE EAST.
SO HE'S NOT GOING TO DISCUSS
STRONG POLICY.
>> MARK?
>> GWEN, I THINK IT'S A
COMPLICATED SPEECH MADE MORE
COMPLICATED BY RECENT EVENTS.
I STILL THINK THE PRESIDENT HAS
TO MAKE THE CASE ON MILITARY
ACTION HE FELT WAS NECESSARY AND
IMPERATIVE IN THIS CASE AND WHY
THE THREAT OF MILITARY ACTION
HAS IN FACT CHANGED THE DYNAMIC
AND LED TO A DIPLOMATIC.
BUT ON THE DIPLOMATIC, THERE'S
BOTH SKEPTICISM AND RELIEF.
WITH SKEPTICISM, IT'S HOW LONG
THE PROCESS WILL GO, IF IT'S
ATHINGTIC, IS IF THIS IS SOME
SORT OF A SHELL GAME AND ARE WE
GOING TO GET RID OF THE WEAPONS
AND THE MOST COMPLICATED THING
IS THE RHETORIC OF THE
PRESIDENT'S SUPPORTERS,
INCLUDING SENATOR REED, AND IT'S
A COMPARISON OF THE SIDE TO
HITLER AND IF IT IS LIKE HITLER
AND USING POISON GAS ON HIS OWN
PEOPLE IS IT IN THE BEST
INTEREST OR EVEN DECENT INTEREST
OF HUMAN KIND TO KEEP IN IN
POWER, THIS PROCESS SO I INK
IT'S A COMPLICATED SPEECH THE
PRESIDENT HAS TO GIVE.
>> DO YOU THINK THAT THE
POSSIBILITY OF A DIPLOMATIC
SOLUTION HERE MAKES IT HARDER TO
SELL A MILITARY STRIKE?
>> OH, YES.
THERE'S NO QUESTION.
I THINK WHATEVER HOPE -- I HAVE
ALWAYS BEEN SKEPTICAL OF THE
IDEA THAT CONGRESS WAS GOING TO
PASS A RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT OF
THIS BECAUSE THE COUNTRY IS
STILL OVERWHELMINGLY AGAINST IT.
WHEN THERE'S A DIPLOMATIC OPTION
THEN THE CHANCES FALL TO NEAR
ZERO SO I THINK IT MAKES THAT
CASE HARDER.
I STILL THINK HE HAS TO MAKE
THIS CASE IN CASE THIS
DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION FALLS APART.
THE OTHER THING IS THAT HE HAS
TO ESTABLISH SOME CREDIBILITY.
HE HAS HAD A HORRIBLE TWO WEEKS,
LIKE HE CAN'T LOOK AHEAD OR HAS
LOOKED INEPT OR LOOKED WEAK.
SO SOME PROJECTION OF WHERE
WE'RE HEADED AND I AM STILL THE
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF AND SOME OF
THAT YOU CAN TRUST ME, I HAVE
CREDIBILITY AND POWER HERE, THAT
IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN ANY
SUBSTANTIVE THING THAT HE SAID.
>> THERE ARE TWO AUDIENCES, THE
GEOPOLITICAL AUDIENCE, THE WORLD
AND THE DOMESTIC.
WHO DOES HE SPEAK TO PRIMARILY
TONIGHT?
>> DO THE DOMESTIC AUDIENCE AND
I THINK HE HAS TO BE REASSURING
ON THE STEPS WE'RE TAKING, WHERE
IT TAKES US FROM HERE.
THERE HAS TO BE A CONFIDENCE AND
THE A SENSE OF CAN PEOPLE
UNDERSTAND, OK, NOW I KNOW WHERE
WE ARE AND NOW I KNOW WHAT IS
NECESSARY AND HAS TO BE DONE.
I JUST THINK THAT HAS BEEN
MISSING.
THERE'S BEEN A CERTAIN AD HOC
QUALITY TO THIS POLICY UP TO NOW
AND I THINK IT'S ABSOLUTELY
IMPERATIVE THAT THE PRESIDENT
ADDRESS THE NATION AT A TIME HE
REQUESTED LAY THAT OUT
SPECIFICALLY SO PEOPLE WALK AWAY
NOT ONLY UNDERSTAND WHAT WE'RE
DOING WITH THE NATIONAL CENTER
AND SECURING SOME SENSE OF
PEACE.
I THINK A NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENT
HAS TO BE PART OF THE
PRESIDENT'S DELIVERY TONIGHT
THAT THIS MAN IS NOT GOING TO BE
IN POWER INPERPETUITY.
>> AND HE CAN'T CLAIM TO HAVE
REACHED THE FINISH LINE.
>> NOT AT ALL.
>> HE CAN SAY, WE COMP MID,
DONE.
>> TWO WEEKS AGO PUTIN WAS
DENYING THAT SYRIA HAD USED
THEM, THAT THEY HAD THEM OR
ANYTHING OF THE SORT.
AND NOW --
>> IT'S CENTRAL.
>> EXACTLY.
NOW THE RUSSIANS SAY WE WILL
GIVE THEM UP AND PUT THEM UNDER
INTERNATIONAL CONTROL.
SO IN THAT SENSE THERE'S A
PROCESS.
>> ON THE AD HOC POINT DID YOU
IT MATTER IF PEOPLE COME AWAY
BELIEVING OH, THE PRESIDENT HAD
A DIPLOMATIC IDEA IN MIND ALL
ALONG OR WHETHER THEY THINK THIS
JUST CAME UP AT THE LAST MINUTE?
>> IT WOULD MATTER IF HE COULD
PER SITUATIONIVELY SAY THIS IS
ALL A MASTER PLAN AND I HAVE
BEEN SUPERCONFIDENT -- BUT I
DON'T THINK THAT WILL BE THE
KIES.
I HAVE NEVER SEEN A PRESIDENT
PRETEND TO BE LESS COMPETENT
THAN HE IS.
IF HE HE HAS BEEN PRETENDING HE
IS DOING AN OUTSTANDING JOB.
>> I THINK SHOWING STRENGTH,
STANDING UP AND TAKING A STAND
HAS LENT TO THE DIPLOMATIC
PROCESS ANYWAY AND I THINK THAT
IS A LEGITIMATE CASE TO MAKE,
NOT THAT THIS IS PART OF A
MASTER PLAN THAT WE HATCHED AT
CAMP DAVID JUST AMP MEMORIAL
DAY.
IF IT WAS, WE'RE IN TROUBLE.
>> DO YOUY WITH DAVID THE
PRESIDENT IS BASICALLY BACKED
INTO A CORNER ON THIS?
>> I THINK THAT THE PRESIDENT
MAY HAVE BEEN GIVEN A GREAT
BREAK BY THIS.
I REALLY DO.
I THINK THAT JOHN KERRY DESERVES
CREDIT.
HE KEPT -- HE KEPT THE CHANNELS
OPEN WITH THE RUSSIANS.
HE HAS BEEN TIRELESS.
AND THIS WEEK HE GOES TO GENEVA
AND WE WILL FIND OUT, YOU KNOW,
WE WILL FIND IF TRUST IS
VERIFIED.
>> AND IF SYRIA GOES TO THE BACK
PAGES THE ENTIRE COUNTRY WILL
BREATHE A SIGH OF RELIEF
ESPECIALLY THE PRESIDENT.
>> DAVID BROOKS, MARK SHIELDS.
WE WILL SEE YOU BOTH LATER
TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AGAIN THE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS
OF THE DAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA
PRESSED FOR BOTH DIPLOMATIC AND
MILITARY ACTION ON SYRIA IN THE
RUN UP TO HIS ADDRESS TO THE
NATION THIS EVENING.
AND WALL STREET RALLIED ON SIGNS
OF TENSIONS OVERSEERA'S CHEMICAL
WEAPONS MIGHT EASE.
THE DOW GAINED 128 POINTS.
>> JUST AS WE HAVE CHANGED OUR
LOOK ON OUR, WE HAVE CHANGED OUR
LOOK ONLINE.
WE HAVE A FRESH APPROACH TO
TRACKING THE MOST IMPORTANT
STORIES OF THE DAY AS THEY
UNFOLD.
YOU CAN FIND
YOU CAN FIND THIS NEW BLOG ON
OUR HOME PAGE.
AND THERE, BE SURE TO WATCH A
LIVE STREAM OF THE PRESIDENT'S
ADDRESS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR NOW.
BUT WE'LL BE BACK AGAIN AT 9 PM
EASTERN, TO BRING YOU SPECIAL
COVERAGE OF PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
ADDRESS TO THE NATION ON SYRIA.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodru: ANffD I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
ON BEHALF OF ALL OF US AT THE
PBS NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU, AND
GOOD NIGHT.